**analysis_ABM.R**

Function that dialogues with the user and returns violin plots as in Snijders and Steglich (2015) for any macro network metric with non-negligible IQR. The function also returns a user-specified number of network plots and latex tables with the mean and standard deviation and summary statistics (min, Q1, median, Q3, max) for each macro network metric.

In particular, the function asks the user to specify multiple input directories in the dialogue boxes. These multiple directories correspond to the various networks generated by the ABM that the user wishes to analyse. The function also asks for (a single) output directory in which to place the latex tables containing the mean, standard deviation, and vector of summary statistics for each network metric computed for each simulated network. Violinplots can be found in each individual input directory.

**Required libraries (see packages.R script)** 

+ Hmisc
+ iGraph 
+ sna
+ intergraph
+ tidyverse
+ ggplot2
+ stats
+ vtable
+ svDialogs
+ readline 
+ types
  
**How to** 

Load the function on the R workspace and execute the following:

```{r}
number_of_directories <- NUM_DIRS  #place here the number of input directories 

analysis_ABM(number_of_directories) #default number of directories is 2 

```

Next, the user must enter the required values in the dialogue boxes that will open on the screen. In particular, the user must enter the following:

+ Whether OS is Windows or Unix; 
+ The full-path of the input directories (e.g., if OS is Windows: "C:\\Users\\User\\Simulations\\param_vector0");  
+ The **only** output directory, where the user will find as many latex tables as there are input directories, named correctly;  
+ The values of the Snijders and Steglich (2015) macro network metrics computed on the empirical networks and the desired number of simulated network plots (either 4, 6, or 8)

**Caveats** 

In the loaded R code, the calculations on some network metrics are not executed (namely those for centering and scaling density, G50, and diameter). The reason for this is that they have no (or minimal) variability for many parameter combinations. For this reason, `ggplot2` does not draw them in violin plots. However, their summary statistics can be found in the latex tables, along with the values for the number of components and the size of the largest component. The user can always insert those metrics, if needed.

Finally, the user can easily expand the script by adding any macro network metric. In fact, the script is designed in a modular fashion. 
